[Music]
Welcome to the next session.
Now we will talk about lambda expressions.
Lambda expressions are used for functional programming.
So a lambda function is basically an unknown function
This kind of function you can define like this.
So you have "auto f",
"f" should be the lambda function, equals,
and now you have the so called capture list.
In this capture list you can capture,
for example variables, from the surrounding scope,
that you want to use inside the lambda function.
Then you have the normal parameter list.
So let's say an integer parameter "i".
So this is a function,
where you can pass an integer argument to.
Then you have a new syntax for the return type.
This is the arrow. And then you for example
specify here "int".
So the function returns an integer
And then follows the function body
and here you can say, like, return "i".
So this would define you now a lambda function f,
taking an integer argument, returning an integer.
And what it does it just returns, what it gets.
Why do I use "auto" here,
because the type of such lambda changes.
So the compiler generates specific type
for each lambda function
and so you must use "auto" here.
So remember I have mentioned this example
already in the first video, okay.
So now let's go to some more complex examples about lambdas.
In our first example, "fcn1",
you define a local variable "v1"
and then you have your lambda and in the capture list
you provide "v1".
After that you set the "v1" to 0
and then you basically call the lambda and insert "j" with it.
What happens now is that "j" becomes 42.
Why? Because if you use this syntax,
then "v1" is copied. So that's the first version.
You can also use here the reference syntax
and what happens then is,
"f2" contains now a reference to the "v1"
and when you set it to 0 outside,
then this means also inside,
because it's the same object, it is then 0.
And thus if you print "j", it will become 0.
So that's one way to control what happens inside,
depending on how you set up your capture list.
A third version is, when you want
to be able to change the captured variable inside,
then there is the mutable keywords.
So you just provide mutable
and then you can you internally increase "v1"
If you don't provide mutable,
then it will basically not be possible.
Number four. Here you have again a reference,
that you insert and then you increase it.
So that's our second version here,
but now you change inside the "v1".
And that means that basically this line sets
the v1 from here to zero.
The same one is also used here
and thus zero increased, is 1 and "j" is 1 at the end.
And the last example, a little bit more complicated
here you have a constant pointer to "v1"
and what we do then, we provide this constant pointer
to the lambda in the capture list.
And now if we increment that
and we increment the value the pointer points to.
Then of course "j" will here become the incremented value
of the value "p" points to.
So that means it was 42 before,
now we increase it, so it's 43.
And both the "v1" and the "j" are 42,
because the address is the same
and thus here the value at that address is increased.
In the second example, you set now "v1" to zero.
So this "v1" becomes zero
and thus since it is still the same address,
also "j" is then set to zero
and if you increase it, then it will be 1.
So these are some basic examples
of use cases for lambdas.
Now at the end I will show one a little bit more complex example.
So for that I need a helper function called print.
So here a vector of strings is passed
and then for each word in this vector.
So this is again iterator interval.
So you have "begin", "end", the whole vector
You are using here a lambda function.
And in this lambda function that takes
constant string reference it has an argument,
you just print the string.
So that's all. It's a helper function.
So the result will be, that each element is printed.
And in our main program, we now do the following.
We use a vector of strings
and we fill it with words from the standard input.
So the user can input here some words.
After that these words are printed, like we see above.
And at the end we sort the words,
again using from standard library the sort algorithm.
And here we see another example for a lambda
in this case it's a predicate that says, okay,
how do I compare now two different words.
So you can specify that to the sort algorithm of course,
it would also work without,
because string supports the "<",
but as an example I have again passed it here.
So this will be used for the comparison
inside of the sort.
And if we run this example,
what happens is. Let's insert some words and numbers.
And first it will print the whole vector in the same order,
as we have given it who provided it
and then it sorts.
So here I have mixed numbers and words.
So first you see the numbers
and these are sorted. And then you get the words
and they are also in alphabetical order.
So this is a very common use case,
also for lambda functions, together with the standard library.
[Music]